developers-guide/runmultinode.md, before:

# Multi-Node Testnet

This document shows how to start a testnet of smartBCH with multiple nodes. 

We suggest to use ubuntu 20.04.

Among these nodes, just pick one to generate the genesis file. And all the other nodes do not generate the genesis file, instead, they use the generated genesis file as is.

### 1. On the nodes which do not generate the genesis file

#### Step 0: Prepare

Follow the instructions in [running a single-node testnet](./runsinglenode.md), and just finish the steps 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 described in it.



#### Step 1: generate the private keys to operate one validator

```bash
cd ~/smart_bch/smartbch
./smartbchd gen-test-keys -n 1 --show-address | tee gen-test-keys.txt
2915b09298d0362df490fe3969b10aece94cd3460fb1ba29184cba31516a9b5f 0xF0c6969C2a554ddae639ba1Aa1d2fA11382CAb2B
```

The above command generates one private key. And the corresponding EOA address is `0xF0c6969C2a554ddae639ba1Aa1d2fA11382CAb2B`.



#### Step 2: generate genesis validator consensus key info

Now we generate the ed25519 private key for consensus engine:

```bash
./smartbchd generate-consensus-key-info |tee generate-consensus-key-info.txt
a07871d10858179c1bb3c1f0d7bab31103135b76f96b6bd1f06a5bc0d350f862
```

The output hex string is consensus pubkey which will be used in `generate-genesis-validator` command, and a file containing the consensus public and private key is generated under the current directory, named `priv_validator_key.json`.



#### Step 3: generate genesis validator info using pubkey generated above

```bash
./smartbchd generate-genesis-validator \
	--validator-address=0xF0c6969C2a554ddae639ba1Aa1d2fA11382CAb2B \
	--consensus-pubkey=a07871d10858179c1bb3c1f0d7bab31103135b76f96b6bd1f06a5bc0d350f862 \
	--voting-power=1 \
	--staking-coin=0 \
	--introduction="happyman"
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
```

The `validator-address` is the one we get at step 1, and the `consensus-pubkey` is the one we get at step 2.

The output hex string contains the information of a validator. Send the this hex string to the node who is genesis-generator.



#### Step 4: wait for the data directory's tarball and unpack it

The genesis-generator will send you a tarball named dot.smartbchd.tgz, which contains the initial content for the data directory.

```bash
cd ~
tar zxvf dot.smartbchd.tgz
rm -rf .smartbchd
./smartbchd init mynode --chain-id 0x2711
cp -rf dot.smartbchd/* .smartbchd/
```

#### Step 5: Copy private key file to data directory and start node

Copy priv_validator_key.json generated in Step 2, to get the data directory:

```bash
cp ./priv_validator_key.json ~/.smartbchd/config/
```

Now start the node:

```
ulimit -n 65536
./smartbchd start
```

For the `smartbchd start` command, you can use `--mainnet-url` option to specify a bitcoincashnode's RPC endpoint, and use `--home` option to specifiy another data directory other than ~/.smartbchd .



#### Step 6: activate validator

Before you activate your genesis validator, try to get testnet BCH in your validator address, it needs at least 

```
1000000000000000000000 bch
```

You can ask the genesis-generator to send you some testnet BCH. And you can check your balance with below command (Replace `your_validator_address` with your genesis validator address):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_getBalance","params":["your_validator_address","latest"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

After you have enough bch, you can run the following command:

```
./smartbchd staking \
--validator-key=07427a59913df1ae8af709f60f536ddba122b0afa8908291471ca58c603a7447 \
--staking-coin=2000000000000000000000000 \
--nonce=0 \
--chain-id=0x2711
```

Note: replace the content after `--validator-key` with your validator private key, and repace the content after `--staking-coin` with `1000000000000000000000` or even more you have.

⚠️Keep your private key safe, and execute this command on a secure, offline machine

Then broadcast the transaction (replace `--your_tx_data` with what hex string get above):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_sendRawTransaction","params":["you_tx_data"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

Now, you had send an `editValidator` transaction to staking contract. Check this transaction's receipt (replace `your_tx_hash` with what the hex string you get above):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_getTransactionReceipt","params":["your_tx_hash"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

If the `status` is `0x1`, congratulations, your genesis validator is activated now.



### 2. On the node which generates the genesis file

#### Step 0: Prepare

Just finish the steps 0-9 as [running a single-node testnet](./runsinglenode.md).



#### Step 1: add genesis validator info to genesis.json using hex strings sent by other nodes

Using `./smartbchd add-genesis-validator` multiple times, one time with one hex string sent by one node. Finally you'll include all the validators' information in the genesis.json file.

Then, make a copy of the `~/.smartbchd` directory, excluding the `node_key.json` file. 

```bash
cp -r ~/.smartbchd ~/dot.smartbchd
rm ~/dot.smartbchd/config/node_key.json
```



#### Step 2: start the node

Run the step 10 and 11 as  [running a single-node testnet](./runsinglenode.md).



#### Step 4: collect seeds information

Collect the p2p seeds information and modify the `~/dot.smartbchd/config/config.toml` file.

#### 

#### Step 5: send information to all the other nodes

Make a tarball:

```bash
cd ~
tar czvf dot.smartbchd.tgz dot.smartbchd
```

Then send this dot.smartbchd.tgz file to all the other nodes.



### 3. Join in as a validator after genesis

You can also join in an already-running smartBCH chain as a new validator.

#### Step 0: create new validator

Follow the step 0,1,2 described in the above section 1, to get the validator account key and the consensus key. Then, you can use these key information to build command below:

```
./smartbchd staking \
--validator-key=fceb6fbf700ae1faaf482fbaf7c3dfd2c8635956ed23a3eb1178e5d71ac34dbc \
--staking-coin=1000000000000000000000000 \
--consensus-pubkey=d4849694a7105200464dfc1160c95ed26664b556c3e468b03312ed9ebd937eb4 \
--type=create \
--nonce=0 \
--chain-id=0x2711
```

This command will output a hex string to be used in the next step.

#### Step 1: send transaction to register as a validator

Make sure you have enough BCH in you validator account.

Then broadcast the transaction (replace `your_tx_data` with what hex string get above):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_sendRawTransaction","params":["you_tx_data"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

OK, now you had send a `createValidator` transaction to the staking contract. Check this transaction's receipt (replace `your_tx_hash` with what the hex string you get in above command):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_getTransactionReceipt","params":["your_tx_hash"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

If the `status` is `0x1`, congratulations, your validator is created now, but it has no voting power now.

#### Step 2: voting in the BCH mainnet

Someone must vote for your validator to make it active in a future epoch. If you are using [a fake BCH node](https://github.com/smartbch/testkit/tree/main/bchnode), the voting for new validator can be started using the following command:

```
./bchnode/scripts pubkey.sh "you_consenesus_pubkey"-"you_voting_power"-add
```

Like this: `./pubkey.sh d4849694a7105200464dfc1160c95ed26664b556c3e468b03312ed9ebd937eb4-1-add`

If you are using a real BCH node, please use **`getblocktemplate`** to specify the coinbase transaction for voting.

You can also starting voting before registering the validator, which can make sure then it is registered, it gets voting power as soon as possible.



### 4. Adjust minGasPrice

You can adjust minmum gas price that tx must pay for its gas in smartBCH chain, but only an active validator and its rewardTo address has permission to do this.

#### Step 0: generate minGasPrice adjust signed rawTx

Follow the step 0,1,2 described in the above section 1, to get the validator account key and the consensus key. Then, you can use these key information to build increase minGasPrice command below:

```
./smartbchd staking \
--validator-key=fceb6fbf700ae1faaf482fbaf7c3dfd2c8635956ed23a3eb1178e5d71ac34dbc \
--type=increase \
--nonce=0 \
--chain-id=0x2711
```

or decrease minGasPrice command below:

```
./smartbchd staking \
--validator-key=fceb6fbf700ae1faaf482fbaf7c3dfd2c8635956ed23a3eb1178e5d71ac34dbc \
--type=decrease \
--nonce=0 \
--chain-id=0x2711
```

These two command will output a hex string to be used in the next step.

#### Step 1: send transaction to adjust minGasPrice

Make sure you have enough BCH in you sender account.

Then broadcast the transaction (replace `your_tx_data` with what hex string get above):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_sendRawTransaction","params":["you_tx_data"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

OK, now you had send a `increaseMinGasPrice` transaction to the staking contract. Check this transaction's receipt (replace `your_tx_hash` with what the hex string you get in above command):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_getTransactionReceipt","params":["your_tx_hash"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

If the `status` is `0x1`, congratulations, your update success.

Commit message:

Move smartbchd build steps into its own doc

developers-guide/runmultinode.md, after:

# Multi-Node Testnet

This document shows how to start a testnet of smartBCH with multiple nodes. 

We suggest to use ubuntu 20.04.

Among these nodes, just pick one to generate the genesis file. And all the other nodes do not generate the genesis file, instead, they use the generated genesis file as is.

### 1. On the nodes which do not generate the genesis file

#### Step 0: build smartbchd

Please follow [this document](./build-smartbchd.md) to build `smartbchd` , the executable of smartBCH's full node client.



#### Step 1: generate the private keys to operate one validator

```bash
cd ~/smart_bch/smartbch
./smartbchd gen-test-keys -n 1 --show-address | tee gen-test-keys.txt
2915b09298d0362df490fe3969b10aece94cd3460fb1ba29184cba31516a9b5f 0xF0c6969C2a554ddae639ba1Aa1d2fA11382CAb2B
```

The above command generates one private key. And the corresponding EOA address is `0xF0c6969C2a554ddae639ba1Aa1d2fA11382CAb2B`.



#### Step 2: generate genesis validator consensus key info

Now we generate the ed25519 private key for consensus engine:

```bash
./smartbchd generate-consensus-key-info |tee generate-consensus-key-info.txt
a07871d10858179c1bb3c1f0d7bab31103135b76f96b6bd1f06a5bc0d350f862
```

The output hex string is consensus pubkey which will be used in `generate-genesis-validator` command, and a file containing the consensus public and private key is generated under the current directory, named `priv_validator_key.json`.



#### Step 3: generate genesis validator info using pubkey generated above

```bash
./smartbchd generate-genesis-validator \
	--validator-address=0xF0c6969C2a554ddae639ba1Aa1d2fA11382CAb2B \
	--consensus-pubkey=a07871d10858179c1bb3c1f0d7bab31103135b76f96b6bd1f06a5bc0d350f862 \
	--voting-power=1 \
	--staking-coin=0 \
	--introduction="happyman"
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
```

The `validator-address` is the one we get at step 1, and the `consensus-pubkey` is the one we get at step 2.

The output hex string contains the information of a validator. Send the this hex string to the node who is genesis-generator.



#### Step 4: wait for the data directory's tarball and unpack it

The genesis-generator will send you a tarball named dot.smartbchd.tgz, which contains the initial content for the data directory.

```bash
cd ~
tar zxvf dot.smartbchd.tgz
rm -rf .smartbchd
./smartbchd init mynode --chain-id 0x2711
cp -rf dot.smartbchd/* .smartbchd/
```

#### Step 5: Copy private key file to data directory and start node

Copy priv_validator_key.json generated in Step 2, to get the data directory:

```bash
cp ./priv_validator_key.json ~/.smartbchd/config/
```

Now start the node:

```
ulimit -n 65536
./smartbchd start
```

For the `smartbchd start` command, you can use `--mainnet-url` option to specify a bitcoincashnode's RPC endpoint, and use `--home` option to specifiy another data directory other than ~/.smartbchd .



#### Step 6: activate validator

Before you activate your genesis validator, try to get testnet BCH in your validator address, it needs at least 

```
1000000000000000000000 bch
```

You can ask the genesis-generator to send you some testnet BCH. And you can check your balance with below command (Replace `your_validator_address` with your genesis validator address):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_getBalance","params":["your_validator_address","latest"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

After you have enough bch, you can run the following command:

```
./smartbchd staking \
--validator-key=07427a59913df1ae8af709f60f536ddba122b0afa8908291471ca58c603a7447 \
--staking-coin=2000000000000000000000000 \
--nonce=0 \
--chain-id=0x2711
```

Note: replace the content after `--validator-key` with your validator private key, and repace the content after `--staking-coin` with `1000000000000000000000` or even more you have.

⚠️Keep your private key safe, and execute this command on a secure, offline machine

Then broadcast the transaction (replace `--your_tx_data` with what hex string get above):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_sendRawTransaction","params":["you_tx_data"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

Now, you had send an `editValidator` transaction to staking contract. Check this transaction's receipt (replace `your_tx_hash` with what the hex string you get above):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_getTransactionReceipt","params":["your_tx_hash"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

If the `status` is `0x1`, congratulations, your genesis validator is activated now.



### 2. On the node which generates the genesis file

#### Step 0: Prepare

Just finish the steps 0-5 as [running a single-node testnet](./runsinglenode.md).



#### Step 1: add genesis validator info to genesis.json using hex strings sent by other nodes

Using `./smartbchd add-genesis-validator` multiple times, one time with one hex string sent by one node. Finally you'll include all the validators' information in the genesis.json file.

Then, make a copy of the `~/.smartbchd` directory, excluding the `node_key.json` file. 

```bash
cp -r ~/.smartbchd ~/dot.smartbchd
rm ~/dot.smartbchd/config/node_key.json
```



#### Step 2: start the node

Run the step 6 and 7 as  [running a single-node testnet](./runsinglenode.md).



#### Step 4: collect seeds information

Collect the p2p seeds information and modify the `~/dot.smartbchd/config/config.toml` file.

#### 

#### Step 5: send information to all the other nodes

Make a tarball:

```bash
cd ~
tar czvf dot.smartbchd.tgz dot.smartbchd
```

Then send this dot.smartbchd.tgz file to all the other nodes.



### 3. Join in as a validator after genesis

You can also join in an already-running smartBCH chain as a new validator.

#### Step 0: create new validator

Follow the step 0,1,2 described in the above section 1, to get the validator account key and the consensus key. Then, you can use these key information to build command below:

```
./smartbchd staking \
--validator-key=fceb6fbf700ae1faaf482fbaf7c3dfd2c8635956ed23a3eb1178e5d71ac34dbc \
--staking-coin=1000000000000000000000000 \
--consensus-pubkey=d4849694a7105200464dfc1160c95ed26664b556c3e468b03312ed9ebd937eb4 \
--type=create \
--nonce=0 \
--chain-id=0x2711
```

This command will output a hex string to be used in the next step.

#### Step 1: send transaction to register as a validator

Make sure you have enough BCH in you validator account.

Then broadcast the transaction (replace `your_tx_data` with what hex string get above):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_sendRawTransaction","params":["you_tx_data"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

OK, now you had send a `createValidator` transaction to the staking contract. Check this transaction's receipt (replace `your_tx_hash` with what the hex string you get in above command):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_getTransactionReceipt","params":["your_tx_hash"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

If the `status` is `0x1`, congratulations, your validator is created now, but it has no voting power now.

#### Step 2: voting in the BCH mainnet

Someone must vote for your validator to make it active in a future epoch. If you are using [a fake BCH node](https://github.com/smartbch/testkit/tree/main/bchnode), the voting for new validator can be started using the following command:

```
./bchnode/scripts pubkey.sh "you_consenesus_pubkey"-"you_voting_power"-add
```

Like this: `./pubkey.sh d4849694a7105200464dfc1160c95ed26664b556c3e468b03312ed9ebd937eb4-1-add`

If you are using a real BCH node, please use **`getblocktemplate`** to specify the coinbase transaction for voting.

You can also starting voting before registering the validator, which can make sure then it is registered, it gets voting power as soon as possible.



### 4. Adjust minGasPrice

You can adjust minmum gas price that tx must pay for its gas in smartBCH chain, but only an active validator and its rewardTo address has permission to do this.

#### Step 0: generate minGasPrice adjust signed rawTx

Follow the step 0,1,2 described in the above section 1, to get the validator account key and the consensus key. Then, you can use these key information to build increase minGasPrice command below:

```
./smartbchd staking \
--validator-key=fceb6fbf700ae1faaf482fbaf7c3dfd2c8635956ed23a3eb1178e5d71ac34dbc \
--type=increase \
--nonce=0 \
--chain-id=0x2711
```

or decrease minGasPrice command below:

```
./smartbchd staking \
--validator-key=fceb6fbf700ae1faaf482fbaf7c3dfd2c8635956ed23a3eb1178e5d71ac34dbc \
--type=decrease \
--nonce=0 \
--chain-id=0x2711
```

These two command will output a hex string to be used in the next step.

#### Step 1: send transaction to adjust minGasPrice

Make sure you have enough BCH in you sender account.

Then broadcast the transaction (replace `your_tx_data` with what hex string get above):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_sendRawTransaction","params":["you_tx_data"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

OK, now you had send a `increaseMinGasPrice` transaction to the staking contract. Check this transaction's receipt (replace `your_tx_hash` with what the hex string you get in above command):

```
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_getTransactionReceipt","params":["your_tx_hash"],"id":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

If the `status` is `0x1`, congratulations, your update success.
