# SEP206: Manipulate Native Token as a SEP20 Token

- [SEP-206: Manipulate Native Token as a SEP20 Token](#sep206-manipulate-native-token-as-a-sep20-token)
  - [1. Summary](#1--summary)
  - [2. Abstract](#2--abstract)
  - [3. Motivation](#3--motivation)
  - [4. Status](#4--status)
  - [5. Specification](#5--specification)
    - [5.1 Token](#51-token)
      - [5.1.1 Methods](#511-methods)
        - [5.1.1.1 name](#5111-name)
        - [5.1.1.2 symbol](#5112-symbol)
        - [5.1.1.3 decimals](#5113-decimals)
        - [5.1.1.4 totalSupply](#5114-totalsupply)
        - [5.1.1.5 balanceOf](#5115-balanceof)
        - [5.1.1.6 getOwner](#5116-getowner)
        - [5.1.1.7 transfer](#5117-transfer)
        - [5.1.1.8 transferFrom](#5118-transferfrom)
        - [5.1.1.9 approve](#5119-approve)
        - [5.1.1.10 allowance](#51110-allowance)
        - [5.1.1.11 increaseAllowance](#51111-increaseAllowance)
        - [5.1.1.12 decreaseAllowance](#51112-decreaseAllowance)
      - [5.1.2 Events](#512-events)
        - [5.1.2.1 Transfer](#5121-transfer)
        - [5.1.2.2 Approval](#5122-approval)
  - [6. License](#6-license)

## 1.  Summary
This SEP proposes a method to manipulate the native token, i.e., BCH, through a pseudo smart contract with SEP20 interface.

## 2.  Abstract
On Ethereum, the developers of DApp have always a pain: ETH is not an ERC20 token. And the methods to manipulate ETH and ERC20 tokens are totally different. There are two ways to alleviate this problem:

1. Wrap ETH to make it an ERC20 token: [WETH](https://weth.io).
2. Write two sets of logic in smart contracts to support ETH and ERC20 seperately.

These methods are neither perfect.

On smartBCH, a psuedo smart contract can help you manipulate BCH directly. This smart contract is psuedo because it is not implemented by EVM bytecode. Instead, it is supported natively in the full client, smartbchd. So it can do a thing that no other smart contracts can do: moving BCH. It has a predefined address: 10001, like the precompiled contracts.

This pseudo contract has a SEP20 interface, it can be called as if it is SEP20 smart contract.

## 3.  Motivation
This proposal specifies the behavior of functions in this psuedo smart contract, such that developers can use it correctly.

## 4.  Status
This SEP is under draft.

## 5.  Specification

### 5.1 Token

**NOTES**:
- The following specifications use syntax from Solidity **0.5.16** (or above)

####  5.1.1 Methods

##### 5.1.1.1 name
```
function name() external view returns (string)
```
- Returns "BCH".

##### 5.1.1.2 symbol
```
function symbol() external view returns (string)
```
- Returns "BCH".

##### 5.1.1.3 decimals
```
function decimals() external view returns (uint8)
```
- Returns 18.

##### 5.1.1.4 totalSupply
```
function totalSupply() external view returns (uint256)
```
- Returns 2.1E25.
- **NOTE** - Most of the BCH tokens of smartBCH will be locked in a smart contract, which is be controlled by the gateway keepers.

##### 5.1.1.5 balanceOf
```
function balanceOf(address _owner) external view returns (uint256 balance)
```
- Returns the BCH balance of another account with address `_owner`.
- Returns the same value as the `eth_getBalance` function in Web3 API.

##### 5.1.1.6 getOwner
```
function getOwner() external view returns (address);
```
- Returns zero address.

##### 5.1.1.7 transfer
```
function transfer(address _to, uint256 _value) external returns (bool success)
```
- Transfers `_value` amount of BCH to address `_to`, and fire the Transfer event. The function throws if the message caller’s account balance does not have enough tokens to spend.

##### 5.1.1.8 transferFrom
```
function transferFrom(address _from, address _to, uint256 _value) external returns (bool success)
```
- Transfers `_value` amount of BCH from address `_from` to address `_to`, and fires the Transfer event.
- The function throws unless the `_from` account has deliberately authorized the sender of the message via allowance control.

##### 5.1.1.9 approve
```
function approve(address _spender, uint256 _value) external returns (bool success)
```
- Allows `_spender` to withdraw from your account multiple times, up to the `_value` amount of BCH. If this function is called again it overwrites the current allowance with `_value`.

##### 5.1.1.10 allowance
```
  function allowance(address _owner, address _spender) external view returns (uint256 remaining)
```
- Returns the amount which `_spender` is still allowed to withdraw from `_owner`.

##### 5.1.1.11 increaseAllowance 
```
  function increaseAllowance(address _spender, uint256 _delta) external returns (bool success)
```

- Increases the amount which `_spender` is still allowed to withdraw from you.


##### 5.1.1.12 decreaseAllowance 
```
    function decreaseAllowance(address _spender, uint256 _delta) external returns (bool success)
```

- Decreases the amount which `_spender` is still allowed to withdraw from you.


#### 5.1.2 Events

##### 5.1.2.1 Transfer
```
event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _value)
```
- It's triggerred when tokens are transferred, including zero value transfers.

##### 5.1.2.2 Approval
```
event Approval(address indexed _owner, address indexed _spender, uint256 _value)
```
- It's triggerred on any successful call to `approve(address _spender, uint256 _value)`, `increaseAllowance(address _spender, uint256 _delta)` or `decreaseAllowance(address _spender, uint256 _delta)`.



## 6. License

The content is licensed under [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).


